# LBRY Chain Query


## Prerequisites


### Go

Make sure you have Go 1.9+

- Ubuntu: https://launchpad.net/~longsleep/+archive/ubuntu/golang-backports or https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Ubuntu
- OSX: `brew install go`


### MySQL

- Install and run mysql.(OSX: `brew install mysql`)
- Create `lbrycrd` database.
- Create user `lbry` with password `lbry` and grant it all permissions on `lbrycrd` db.

### Active Development Notice
 
The project is under active development so sql migrations are not being used yet. All changes to the schema are being added to the initial schema since there are so many changes currently. Please be sure to drop all tables before starting the app to ensure that you will have the latest schema if this is not the first time using the application.

### Lbrycrd


- Install lbrycrdd (https://github.com/lbryio/lbrycrd/releases)
- Ensure `~/.lbrycrd/lbrycrd.conf` file exists with username and password.
  If you don't have one, run:

  ```
  mkdir -p ~/.lbrycrd
  echo -e "rpcuser=lbryrpc\nrpcpassword=$(env LC_CTYPE=C LC_ALL=C tr -dc A-Za-z0-9 < /dev/urandom | head -c 16 | xargs)" > ~/.lbrycrd/lbrycrd.conf
  ```

- Run `./lbrycrdd -server -daemon -txindex -conf=$HOME/.lbrycrd/lbrycrd.conf`. If you get an error about indexing, add the `-reindex` flag for one run. You will only need to
  reindex once.


## Running the project

```
go get -u github.com/lbryio/chainquery
cd "$(go env GOPATH)/src/github.com/lbryio/chainquery"
./dev.sh
```


## Updating the generated models

We use [sqlboiler](https://github.com/lbryio/sqlboiler) to generate our data models based on the db schema. If you make  schema changes, run `./gen_models.sh` to
regenerate the models.

**A note of caution:** the models are generated by connecting to the MySQL server and inspecting the current schema. If you made any db schema changes by hand, then the
schema may be out of sync with the migrations. Here's the safe way to ensure that the models match the migrations:

- Put all the schema changes you want to make into a migration.
- In mysql, drop and recreate the db you're using, so that it's empty.
- Run `./dev.sh`. This will run all the migrations on the empty db.
- Run `./gen_models.sh` to update the models.

This process ensures that the generated models will match the updated schema exactly, so there are no surprises when the migrations are applied to the live db.
